Let's look at some common visual channels.
And so some common visual channels
are potentially position,
so your x y position.
And it could be size or dimensions, so
if you have a rectangles,
width and height,
a circles radius or in our case,
our flower petals like scale.
And so that's also continuous.
And we can have a color channel and
so that could either be sequential.
So kinda going from this
light to darker or diverging,
which means that we have
some central value and
then it diverges going to both sides.
And these visual channels
are also continuous.
And on the other hand, we have some
visual channels that are discrete.
So we have these categorical
colors and we can potentially
have different shapes.
So for example, for
our flower petals, we have distinct,
different shapes for
each of our flower petals.
And some other ones that we might
commonly use is maybe we'll map
something dots or squares to letters.
So these are discrete visual channels.
And it's really helpful to think in kind
of this way of continuous or discrete and
from mapping from data to visual
channels when we think about D3 scales.
So for D3 scales, and again,
this isn't the whole list of D3 scales but
these are the ones that I
end up using quite often.
And you can kind of break them down
into this mental model of a continuous
input a continuous data type to
a continuous visual channel.
So that could be scaled linear,
scale log, scale square root, scale time.
And these are mapping from
one continuous data type to,
let's say something like, xy positions or
size a continuous visual channel.
And then we have some scales
that helps you map from
a continuous data type to
a discrete visual channel.
And so, scale quantize is
what we'll use when we map
from our number of IMDb votes
to our number of petals.
Because number of IMDb
votes it could be anything
from a few thousand votes to a million
votes or something like that.
So it's a kind of a continuous and
data type when we think about it.
But then the number of pedals and
it's either we have five pedals or
six pedals or seven pedals or
eight pedals and
there isn't like 5.5 pedals or
anything like that.
So, and this scale quantize helps us kind
of translate from that number of votes.
And they will like kind of chunk
into these discrete chunks and
then it will map it to
the number of petals for us.
And then we have discrete to discrete,
which is a new scale ordinal.
And scale ordinal is really great for
when we're trying to
map discrete data type to,
let's say a discrete color.
So this kind of categorical color scheme,
it's very helpful for that.
And then finally we have going
from discrete to continuous, and
we can use scale band.
And that could be something we have
a bunch of bars that we're trying to draw.
So each bar might be this discrete
thing that we're trying to
represent in the data.
And then maybe it's that we want
to calculate the x-position for
each of those bars.
And so the x-position is something
that's continuous, visual channel.
And so that's the way that I kind
of think about D3 scales and
when and how to use them.